Guide to integrate DBOS with a nest.js application (#314)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/integrations/nestjs.md

---
sidebar_position: 2

> title: Reliable Nest.js backends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Nest.js
```

---
import InstallNode from '/docs/partials/_install_node.mdx';

This guide shows you how to add the open source [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts) library to your existing [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) application to **durably execute** it and make it resilient to any failure.

## DBOS-ify your Nest.js application

### Installation and requirements

> Install DBOS typecript with `npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk`. DBOS requires a [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) database. Add a `dbos-config.yaml` file to the root of your project with your database connection information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install DBOS TypeScript with `npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk`. DBOS requires a [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) database. Add a `dbos-config.yaml` file to the root of your project with your database connection information:
```

```yaml

> database:

Reviewer: You can use a much simpler `dbos-config.yaml`, like this one:

# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts/main/dbos-config.schema.json

language: node
telemetry:
  logs:
    logLevel: 'info'

  password: ${PGPASSWORD}
  app_db_client: knex
```

### Bootstrapping DBOS

:::info
This example was bootstrapped with `nest new nest-starter` and configured to use [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/).
:::

Modify your bootstrap function to import and launch DBOS:

```typescript
// main.ts
import { NestFactory } from '@nestjs/core';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';
// highlight-next-line
import { DBOS } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

async function bootstrap() {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(AppModule);
  // highlight-next-line
  await DBOS.launch();
  await app.listen(process.env.PORT ?? 3000);
}
bootstrap();
```

### Register Services With DBOS
To integrate a Nest.js service with DBOS, your service class must extend the DBOS [ConfiguredInstance](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/reference/transactapi/dbos-class#decorating-instance-methods) class. By extending `ConfiguredInstance`, you add your class instance methods to DBOS Transact's internal registry. During [workflow recovery](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/tutorials/workflow-tutorial#workflow-versioning-and-recovery), this registry enables DBOS to recover workflows using the right class instance.

> Here is an example with a Nest.js service implementing a simple two-step workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a Nest.js service implementing a simple two-step workflow:
```

```typescript
// app.service.ts
import { Injectable } from '@nestjs/common';
import { PrismaService } from 'nestjs-prisma';
// highlight-next-line
import { ConfiguredInstance, DBOS, InitContext } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

@Injectable()
// highlight-next-line
export class AppService extends ConfiguredInstance {
  constructor(
    name: string, // You must provide a name for this class instance to uniquely identify it in DBOS's internal registry.
    private readonly prisma: PrismaService, // An example service dependency
  ) {
    super(name);
  }

  // Optionally perform some asynchronous setup work
  async initialize(): Promise<void> {}

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.workflow()
  async businessLogic() {
    await this.step1();
    await this.step2();
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step1() {
    ...
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step2() {
    ...
  };
}
```

### Add Nest.js Providers

> Finally, we need to write the code that Nest will use to instantiate this service during dependency injection. We'll do this with a [custom _Factory Provider_](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/custom-providers#factory-providers-usefactory). Here is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also need to write the code that Nest will use to instantiate this service during dependency injection. We'll do this with a [custom Factory Provider](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/custom-providers#factory-providers-usefactory). Here is an example:
```

```typescript
// app.modules.ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Provider } from '@nestjs/common/interfaces';
import { AppController } from './app.controller';
import { AppService } from './app.service';
import { PrismaService, PrismaModule } from 'nestjs-prisma';
import { DBOS } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

export const dbosProvider: Provider = {
  provide: AppService,
  useFactory: (prisma: PrismaService) => {
    return DBOS.configureInstance(AppService, "dbosService", prisma);
  },
  inject: [PrismaService],
};

@Module({
  imports: [PrismaModule.forRoot()],
  controllers: [AppController],
  providers: [dbosProvider],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> If you need multiple instances of your DBOS class, you must give them distinct names (`dbosService` in this case) and create a dedicated provider for each.

Reviewer: Why do you need a dedicated provider for each?

Author: Because each provider must have a unique token. There is of course "yet another way" to have multiple classes, but I didn't see it in real applications

```typescript
export const dbosProviders: Provider = {
  provide: 'DBOS_SERVICES',
  useFactory: (prisma: PrismaService) => {
    return [
      DBOS.configureInstance(AppService, 'ServiceA', prisma),
      DBOS.configureInstance(AppService, 'ServiceB', prisma),
    ];
  },
  inject: [PrismaService],
};

@Module({
  providers: [dbosProviders],
  exports: [dbosProviders],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

Your reliable business logic is now reliable!

## Running in DBOS Cloud
DBOS Cloud seamlessly autoscales your application to millions of users and provides built-in dashboards for observability and monitoring.

#### 1. Install the DBOS Cloud CLI
<section className="row list">
<article className="col col--6">

The Cloud CLI requires Node.js 20 or later.
</article>

<article className="col col--6">

<details>

> <summary>Instructions to install Node.js</summary>

Reviewer: If they got this far, they probably already installed Node.

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Reliable Nest.js backends
---
import InstallNode from '/docs/partials/_install_node.mdx';

This guide shows you how to add the open source [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts) library to your existing [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) application to **durably execute** it and make it resilient to any failure.

> ## DBOS-ify your Nest.js application

Reviewer 2: We're Currently Using "Title Case" For Headings *Almost* Everywhere.  I Think You Should Do That Also.

> ### 1. Installation and requirements

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't number these - it doesn't add anything... the order isn't strict, etc.

Install DBOS typecript with `npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk`. DBOS requires a [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) database. Add a `dbos-config.yaml` file to the root of your project with your database connection information:
```yaml
database:
  hostname: localhost
  port: 5432
  username: ${PGUSER}
  password: ${PGPASSWORD}
  app_db_client: knex
```

### 2. Bootstrapping DBOS

:::info

> This example is based of a new Nest.js application initialized with `nest new nest-starter` and configured to use [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Reviewer 2: based off of?

:::

Modify your bootstrap function to import and launch DBOS:

```typescript
// main.ts
import { NestFactory } from '@nestjs/core';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';
// highlight-next-line
import { DBOS } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

async function bootstrap() {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(AppModule);
  // highlight-next-line

>   await DBOS.launch({ nestApp: app });

Author: I'll make a comment to say its optional, but I like the idea of showing people how to wire their workflow traces to whatever external trace context is in incoming requests

>   await DBOS.launch({ nestApp: app });

Author: You know what, it's a pain to explain, so I'll just remove it to make the docs more concise. So far no one asked to wire their external traces with their DBOS workflows -- when that comes we'll have to produce content & testing.

  await app.listen(process.env.PORT ?? 3000);
}
bootstrap();
```

> ### 3. DBOS-ify your services

Reviewer 2: I'm not generally sold on this "DBOS-ify" word.  I'd say "Register Services With DBOS"... and generally clarify why you have to do that.  Are we adding a new DBOS workflow to the application?  Are we actually DBOSifying an existing function (which I would take to mean splitting into steps and transactions and decorating as such)?

I'd start by documenting the addition of a DBOS workflow to the Nest app, as this is easier than DBOSifiying one... DBOSifiying a function is a topic we could treat centrally.

Author: I like `Register Services With DBOS`

Author: The expected audience has an existing Nest.js application with services. The goal of this post is to tell them concisely how to augment said existing services so they can transform the service methods into DBOS operations.

Here is an example with a Nest.js service implementing a simple two-step workflow:

```typescript
// app.service.ts
import { Injectable } from '@nestjs/common';
import { PrismaService } from 'nestjs-prisma';
// highlight-next-line
import { ConfiguredInstance, DBOS, InitContext } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

@Injectable()
// highlight-next-line
export class AppService extends ConfiguredInstance {
  constructor(
    name: string, // You must provide a name for this class instance to uniquely identify it in DBOS's internal registry.
    private readonly prisma: PrismaService, // An example service dependency
  ) {
    super(name);
  }

  // Optionally perform some asynchronous setup work
  async initialize(): Promise<void> {}

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.workflow()
  async businessLogic() {
    await this.step1();
    await this.step2();
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step1() {
    ...
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step2() {
    ...
  };
}
```

### 4. DBOS provider

> Finally, we need to instruct Nest how to instantiate this service during dependency injection. We'll do this with a [custom _Factory Provider_](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/custom-providers#factory-providers-usefactory). Here is an example:

Reviewer 2: ### Add Nest.js Providers

Finally, we need to write the code that Nest will use to instantiate this service during dependency injection.

```typescript
// app.modules.ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Provider } from '@nestjs/common/interfaces';
import { AppController } from './app.controller';
import { AppService } from './app.service';
import { PrismaService, PrismaModule } from 'nestjs-prisma';
import { DBOS } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

export const dbosProvider: Provider = {
  provide: AppService,
  useFactory: (prisma: PrismaService) => {
    return DBOS.configureInstance(AppService, "dbosService", prisma);
  },
  inject: [PrismaService],
};

@Module({
  imports: [PrismaModule.forRoot()],
  controllers: [AppController],
  providers: [dbosProvider],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> If you need multiple instances of your DBOS-ified provider, you must give each a distinct name (here, the name is `dbosService`).

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering about the merit of aligning the 'provide:' field with the configured instance name.  Certainly you have to have a different 'provide:' value to support multiple instances.

Reviewer 2: Strictly, you need multiple instances of your DBOS class, not necessarily the provider.

Author: Yeah that's fair. And for each DBOS class instance you need a dedicated provider token.

> Your reliable business logic is now reliable!

Reviewer 2: Maybe.

## Running in DBOS Cloud

> Applications importing DBOS Transact can be serverlessly deployed to DBOS Cloud.

Reviewer 2: Recommend replacing the dubious word "serverlessly" with a word indicating that this will be quick and easy to do.

---
sidebar_position: 2

> title: Make your Nest.js backend reliable

Reviewer: Just Next.js was fine as a name I think

---
import InstallNode from '/docs/partials/_install_node.mdx';

> This guide demonstrates how to make your existing [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) application reliable and crash-proof with [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to add the open source [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts) library to your existing [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/)  application to **durably execute** it and make it resilient to any failure.
```

```yaml
database:
  hostname: localhost
  port: 5432
  username: ${PGUSER}
  password: ${PGPASSWORD}
  app_db_client: knex
```

### 2. Bootstraping DBOS

:::info
This example is based of a new Nest.js application initialized with `nest new nest-starter` and configured to use [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/).
:::

Modify your bootstrap function to import the DBOS SDK and launch DBOS Transact:

```typescript
// main.ts
import { NestFactory } from '@nestjs/core';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';
// highlight-next-line
import { DBOS } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

async function bootstrap() {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(AppModule);
  // highlight-next-line
  await DBOS.launch();
  await app.listen(process.env.PORT ?? 3000);
}
bootstrap();
```

Optionally, you can pass a `nestApp` to `DBOS.launch()` to install an [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) tracing middleware to your app:
```typescript
await DBOS.launch({ nestApp: app });
```
DBOS natively generates OTel traces for your workflows. This middleware wires them with the traces context of external requests.

### 3. DBOS-ify your services

> To integrate a Nest.js service with DBOS, your service class must extend the DBOS [ConfiguredInstance](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/reference/transactapi/dbos-class#decorating-instance-methods) class. This extension is required to register your class instance methods with DBOS Transact's internal registry. During [workflow recovery](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/tutorials/workflow-tutorial#workflow-versioning-and-recovery), this registration enables DBOS to locate and recover pending workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate a Nest.js service with DBOS, your service class must extend the DBOS [ConfiguredInstance](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/reference/transactapi/dbos-class#decorating-instance-methods) class. This adds your class instance methods to DBOS Transact's internal registry. During [workflow recovery](https://docs.dbos.dev/typescript/tutorials/workflow-tutorial), this registry enables DBOS to recover workflows using the right class instance.
```

> Here is an example with a Nest.js service implementing a simple two-steps workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with a Nest.js service implementing a simple two-step workflow:
```

```typescript
// app.service.ts
import { Injectable } from '@nestjs/common';
import { PrismaService } from 'nestjs-prisma';
// highlight-next-line
import { ConfiguredInstance, DBOS, InitContext } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

@Injectable()
// highlight-next-line
export class AppService extends ConfiguredInstance {
  constructor(

>     name: string, // A name used by DBOS internal registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: string, // You must provide a name for this class instance to uniquely identify it in DBOS's internal registry.
```

  @DBOS.workflow()
  async businessLogic() {
    await this.step1();
    await this.step2();
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step1() {
    ...
  }

  // highlight-next-line
  @DBOS.step()
  async step2() {
    ...
  };
}
```

### 4. DBOS provider

Finally, we need to instruct Nest how to instantiate this service during dependency injection. We'll do this with a [custom _Factory Provider_](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/custom-providers#factory-providers-usefactory). Here is an example:

```typescript
// app.modules.ts
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Provider } from '@nestjs/common/interfaces';
import { AppController } from './app.controller';
import { AppService } from './app.service';
import { PrismaService, PrismaModule } from 'nestjs-prisma';
import { DBOS } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';

export const dbosProvider: Provider = {
  provide: AppService,
  useFactory: (prisma: PrismaService) => {
    return DBOS.configureInstance(AppService, "dbosService", prisma);
  },
  inject: [PrismaService],
};

@Module({
  imports: [PrismaModule.forRoot()],
  controllers: [AppController],
  providers: [dbosProvider],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> You can configure the `dbosService` name if you need multiple instances of this provider, for example by injecting a name provider - as you'd do in any other Nest.js Factory Provider.

Reviewer: This sentence is still unclear

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Nest.js
---
import InstallNode from '/docs/partials/_install_node.mdx';

This guide shows you how to integrate [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact) with your existing [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) application.

> Nest.js uses Dependency Injection (an [inversion of control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_of_control) technique) and encourages you to write your business logic in services that can be injected into your controllers or other services. Such injectable services are exported by Nest.js modules as "providers".

Reviewer: Don't need this paragraph or the next one, Nest.js users know what Nest.js is.

Reviewer: Instead, add another sentence to the first paragraph that briefly says why you want to add DBOS to your Nest.js app.

In this guide, we will show you how to make Nest.js services reliable with DBOS Transact and export them as Nest.js providers.

## DBOS-ify your Nest.js application

### 1. Installation and requirements

:::info
The example in this guide is based of a new Nest.js application, initialized with `nest new nest-starter` and configured to use [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/).
:::

> First, install the DBOS typecript SDK with `npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, install DBOS TypeScript with `npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk`.
```

DBOS requires a postgres database. Add a `dbos-config.yaml` file to the root of your project with your database connection information:
```yaml
database:
  hostname: localhost
  port: 5432
  username: ${PGUSER}
  password: ${PGPASSWORD}
  app_db_client: knex
```

> ### 2. Bootstraping DBOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Bootstrapping DBOS
```

> Modify your bootstrap function to import the DBOS SDK and launch DBOS Transact:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your bootstrap function to import and launch DBOS:
```

```typescript
import { NestFactory } from '@nestjs/core';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';
// highlight-next-line
import { DBOS } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

async function bootstrap() {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(AppModule);
  // highlight-next-line
  await DBOS.launch();
  await app.listen(process.env.PORT ?? 3000);
}
bootstrap();
```

Optionally, you can pass a `nestApp` to `DBOS.launch()` to install an [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) tracing middleware to your app:
```typescript
await DBOS.launch({ nestApp: app });
```
DBOS natively generates OTel traces for your workflows. This middleware wires them with the traces context of external requests.

### 3. DBOS-ify your services

> For this demonstration, we will use a simple service that does two things: sending an HTTP request and inserting a record in the database. You can find the full code for this example on [github](TODO).

Reviewer: Condense the example, make it prescriptive instead of example-driven, and explain Nest.js less and DBOS (particularly configured instances) slightly more.
